Medical science is changing, for example
when we started talking about
intermittent fasting, which is truly a
method, a diet, it's literally the oldest
dietary intervention known to humanity.
It's been used for thousands of years.
And we know that if you don't eat,
nothing bad will happen you'll burn some
sugar, you'll burn some fat, that's the
reason you have body fats, so that if
you don't have anything to eat, you're
gonna burn that fat. So nothing bad
really happens.
So intermittent fasting, for example, five
years will go when I started talking about
it and using it for patients as a
therapeutic option, because we don't make
anybody do it, we can't make anybody do anything.
We give them the option to do it.
Everybody thought it was the craziest,
stupidest idea they'd ever heard. And
just last month I went to San Diego to
give the keynote lecture for the Obesity
Medicine Association, which is the
largest association of obesity
specialists in the United States. And
there were hundreds and hundreds of
doctors there wanting to know about how
to use intermittent fasting so that they
could also make their patients better.
The problem is, I think that the doctors
and the medical community in general is
very slow to change, and that's really
one of the reasons why I go to sort of
popular books and social media, because
this is a message that doesn't need to
be delivered to a doctor to change the
message, we want people to kind of be
empowered, and the thing is that medical
science, everybody thinks it moves very
fast, is very very slow, so you could have
debates ongoing. If your blood sugar
drops, then you don't need to take
medications. And then, if you continue to
not eat, you'll lose weight. And then if
you lose weight, your diabetes your
type 2 diabetes will go away. Again, I
don't think anybody is gonna argue with that.
So the question is, why don't we just do
that? And that's what we do. I'm not gonna
make my patient, who I know in 12 years
will be on dialysis, I'm not gonna
make them wait 12 years assuming
that I can actually get the funding for
this. My duty to him or her is to take
care of them right now
to the best of my ability. So I do that.
And we see cases every single day. So we
have an intensive dietary management
program and every single day I come in,
and just this morning for example, I saw
a lady - 15 years of type 2 diabetes on 80
units of insulin, followed by a
specialist an endocrinologist. I took her
from 80 units of insulin to zero and her
A1C is now 5.9 % which
is classified, because she's on no
medications and her A1C is below 6%, she
actually classified as a non-diabetic.
So we took a severe type 2 diabetes and
in four months we moved her and she
would be classified as a non-diabetic.
This is a reversible disease, but I don't
need to prove it to anybody. I need to
treat people. And that's what I do. I mean,
it would be great if somebody gave to me
a, you know, a couple million dollars to
hire five or ten researchers full-time
who can do a study, but that's not gonna
happen and I don'tsee
that as a very logical solution. We can
do both at the same time. So when you
take the message out sort of directly to
the people on the frontlines, that is the
doctors who want to be there, the
patients who want to be there, they want to
know, because something like fasting,
something like low carbohydrate diets,
it's an option. I'm not saying that
everybody in the world must do it, I'm
saying you can give it a try, it's okay.
If you do well, great. If you don't do
well, then don't do it. But at least you
have the option. It's like a tool in your
toolbox -  it's better to have that there,
rather than saying "Oh, you must never do
this." It's ridiculous really to to give
that sort of,
you know, to take away those choices from
patients when they should really, you
know, be empowered to to make decisions
for themselves.